Digital asset management (DAM) consists of management tasks and decisions surrounding the ingestion, annotation, cataloguing, storage, retrieval and distribution of digital assets i.e. digital photographs. In essence Digital asset Management refers to every part of digital photography after the photograph is captured and is stored in the camera. The process that follows is some form of digital asset management. This amounts to the protocol for downloading, renaming, backing up, rating, grouping, and archiving, optimizing, maintaining, thinning, and exporting files. To expand further, the protocol defines the process or processes of how the digital assets are managed post shooting. Note, animations, videos and music are samples of media asset management are a sub-category of DAM. Media Asset Management (MAM) Your DAM system is the way your images are known to you and possibly everyone else. The question is, is your DAM system enabling you to find your pictures easily when you need them. Are you using your time effectively in managing your pictures. Are you making the most out of your pictures. All these questions are dealt with, within the DAM practices. An Overview of the DAM system The DAM system consists of the following: The definition of an asset? My way of thinking, from the point of view of a photographic image is: an asset is the raw photograph in the camera; this may have incurred considerable cost to capture. Therefore may be a costly asset that needs management in order to manage this asset so to gain maximum return on that investment. In the IT and media world there are two widely accepted definitions for assets, both of which aren’t completely satisfactory. Both agree that a digital asset includes a digital file, but one definition says an asset is a digital file plus the rights to use it, which is fine, if you are the photographer, and the other definition states that an asset is a digital file plus a description of it. The so-called metadata. The first definition (asset _ file _ rights) is more widely used in the context of assets that have a certain value on their own. For example, think of an MP3 file of a song from your favourite band. From a business perspective, it is useless as long as you don’t have the right to do something with it—i.e., use it in a movie you make, sample it in your own song, or Anyone who has taken The case for Return On Investment (ROI) Since the implementation of a DAM system will not go unnoticed in the budget, it is often necessary to make a strong case to those in charge. Listing the benefits previously given is often enough, since virtually everyone who is familiar with real-life productions will realize the associated business value. But, especially in large corporations, it is usually required to prove the dollar value benefit before a decision concerning the introduction of a big system is made. For this purpose, Return On Investment (ROI) is a widely accepted tool, but it has its limitations for Digital Asset Management; DAM is often used to aid the work of creative teams, and they are not only reluctant to let their work be measured in dollar values out of principle, but often it is impossible to even do so. How much value is created exactly when a digital artist polishes his 3D model a bit more so that everyone says “Wow, this is a great improvement, it looks really cool now!”, and the praise makes the artist actually look forward to coming to work tomorrow morning? Therefore, it might make more sense to identify the strongest overall arguments for why the implementation of a DAM system is worth it. Ideas are listed in the previous section, “Benefits for different departments”. If you nevertheless have to create an ROI calculation, take the five benefits mentioned there as a basis to assess the financial potential and use the examples that follow to get you started. In addition, reports from market research firms like Gistics (see Appendix 3) can be a great help. Some additional points you might consider including in your calculation are also found in the following section. 

Understanding Digital Asset Management Software browsers v cataloguers browsers will read the whole image held the normally a flat folder system and display that image by processing it on the fly. So any resizing will be carried out during that processing, This will cause a great deal of time if a large number of images are to be displayed. this time is increased further if the images are to be downloaded over the network. cataloguers’ however store the original image in a number of image sizes so if a list of thumbnail images are to be displayed then only the thumbnail size images will be downloaded and displayed. The disadvantages of a cataloguer is that it may double the size of the image stored. This is not seen as to greater problem as hard disks and DVDs are cheap. 

This chapter is a short, casual introduction to Subversion. If you're new to version control, this chapter is definitely for you. We begin with a discussion of general version control concepts, work our way into the specific ideas behind Subversion, and show some simple examples of Subversion in use. Even though the examples in this chapter show people sharing collections of programsource code, keep in mind that Subversion can manage any sort of file collection—it's not limited to helping computer programmers. How Image Archive fits-in The rationale behind image archive. In image archive was designed to be as simple as possible and use technologies that are robust 

Introducion many so called DAM software provides a nice graphical interface and enables editing of metadata and allow the creation of catalogs etc but puts all the images into one folder so file handling is difficult to manage. Image achieve uses partitions to hold images but allows you to access the the images as if the partition didn't exist. When it comes to managing the images held, having them in a set of partitions helps a great deal 
