#Image Workflow
This section describes the normal processing that an image taken on a digital camera needs to follow in order for it to be archived successfully.

A number of steps in this process are optional but leaving out them may make the operation of the archive less functional, but also lead to the being less secure.
     
##The normal flow of an image taken on a Digital camera.
First it is created on the camera’s sensor when the photographer presses the shutter release button. It is then transferred into the camera’s internal memory. The camera will carry out some internal processing (such as making a JPG of the image and adding EXIF data) then outputting the image into the cameras memory card in the form of one or more image files.

This may be a single RAW image, a RAW and JPG image pair, or just a single JPG image; this will depend on the options selected in the camera. Possibly the best option when setting up the camera is to set it to RAW and jpg pair. This allows for a RAW (unprocessed) image and an image that is in a lossy universal format that 99.9% of the photographic tools can read and manipulate. If you are unlikely to manipulate the image to any large extent, then just use jpg format. Lastly if camera does not support the RAW and jpg pair and you need a lossless format then choose RAW? You will the need to create a viewable image like jpg from the RAW image so the image can be viewed by a standard file browser, this will also be the case if the images are to be shown in a web browser.  This is normally carried out as part of the workflow.
 
These are the image files that you will see as the final image from the camera. Almost all cameras will store its captured images in a folder called DCIM. DCIM stands for Digital Camera IMages and is the first or root folder the camera will create. All most all camera manufactures will be using DCF. This is a specification which defines a file system for digital cameras; this includes the directory structure, file naming, the character set, file format and metadata. The file format of DCF conforms to the EXIF specification; however the DCF specification also allows use of any other file formats.  In the case of jpg, all most all will include EXIF information. The Only problem is in the case of RAW the EXIF information may be included in the RAW format but custom readers by the camera manufacturer.   

The next stage is to transfer this image files on to the computer that will be used to store the images on a more permanent bases in to the archive.
The images on the camera may get on the computer that contains the archive through a number of routes. The first may be removing the memory card from the camera and putting it into a reader on the computer or attaching the camera to the commuter by plugging it in, or wirelessly connecting to it. In all most all cases the images will be seen to the computer as a folder of images. These images will be copied into the archive repository. This folder is the called the target folder. SIA will use this target folder as the source of all the new images to be added to the archive, all folders within this folder will be optionally searched for images.

