##Using the external EXIF reader
SIA provides a simple Exif reader that can read Exif data out of JPGs and possibly other image types.  However Exif data may be present in images that the internal reader may not be able to decode. There are external tools that may able to decode the Exif information is images such as ExifTool by Phil Harvey and Exiv2 project (www.exiv2.org).

SIA enables these tools to be integrated into the workflow when adding images into the archive.  This extracted data is seamlessly inserted into the normal metadata that is archived with the image as if, the internal reader extracted it.

These Tools are actively supported.  As new image formats come on to the market by the camera manufactures tools like Exiftool will add support for these formats.

##SIA supported tools
SIA supports three external tools:
1.	Exiftool
2.	Exiv2
3.	Python Image Library

##Adding an Exit tool to SIA
Tools like Exiftool will read an image file and create a data file containing the Exif information. SIA will read the resulting data file extracting the information as needed. Typically the file Exiftool generates contains a large amount of information not relevant to the archive. To selectively extract required data this data needs to be tagged with keywords.  These keywords act as data field map connectors and are contained the Exiftool.ini map file. 
For example in the Exiftool data file looks like:

Aperture    :    5.6

SIA has a keyword “FNumber” so in order to connect F stops in SIA to the Exiftool data file you will need the line:

Aperture = FNumber

In the Exiftool.ini map file. When SIA reads the map file it will associate the keyword Aperture in Exiftool data file with the keyword “FNumber” in SIA. Then when SIA reads the Exif data file generated by the Exiftool, when it reads “Aperture” the “value” associated will be stored under “FNumber” in SIA.

So that you can test that the mappings are correct, SIA can be run in “detail” mode with archiving turned off. If you then have a test image with Exit data in it and run SIA. SIA will not put the image in the archive but do everything up to archiving. If you then look in the log file it will contain a list of all the keyword matches and the values associated with the matches from this, you can determine if the map file is working correctly.
An installation of SIA will have a default map file. This may be modified if Exiftool changes its keywords or can be used to create a base file for a new tool if you want to replace Exiftool.
A List of the keywords is included in Appendix B along with a description of their meaning. Some values are required to ensure the correct operation of SIA these are labelled if obligatory.          